=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

yard - documentation tool for Ruby 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

B<yard> I<command> [I<options>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<yard> is an extensible documentation generation tool for the Ruby programming
language. It enables the user to generate consistent, usable documentation that
can be exported to a number of formats very easily, and also supports extending
for custom Ruby constructs such as custom class level definitions.

Below are listed the commands that can be passed to the B<yard> on the command
line. For more details about a I<command>, use B<yard> B<help> I<command> from
the command line.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item B<config>

Views or edits current global configuration

=item B<diff>

Returns the object diff of two gems or .yardoc files

=item B<display>

Displays a formatted object

=item B<doc>

Generates documentation. B<yardoc>(1) is a synonym of B<yard> B<doc>.

=item B<gems>

Builds YARD index for gems

=item B<graph>

Graphs class diagram using Graphviz

=item B<help>

Retrieves help for a command

=item B<i18n>

Generates .pot file from source code and extra documentation

=item B<list>

Lists all constant and methods. Uses B<yard> B<doc> B<--list>.

=item B<markups>

Lists all available markup types and libraries

=item B<ri>

A tool to view documentation in the console like B<ri>(1). B<yri>(1) is a synonym of B<yard> B<ri>.

=item B<server>

Runs a local documentation server

=item B<stats>

Prints documentation statistics on a set of files

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<yardoc>(1), B<yri>(1).

=head1 AUTHORS

B<yard> has been developed by Loren Segal <lsegal@soen.ca>.

This manual page has been written for the Debian Project by Cédric Boutillier (but
may used by others).
