=encoding UTF-8


=head1 NAME

yardoc - Ruby tool to generate documentation for the Ruby programming language

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<yarddoc> [I<options>] [I<source_files> [- I<extra_files>]]
B<yard doc> [I<options>] [I<source_files> [- I<extra_files>]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION


B<yard>(1) is an extensible documentation generation tool for the Ruby programming
language. It enables the user to generate consistent, usable documentation that
can be exported to a number of formats very easily, and also supports extending
for custom Ruby constructs such as custom class level definitions.

B<yardoc>, synonym for B<yard> B<doc> generates the documentation from the
list of I<source_files>. If this list is omitted, 
C<{lib,app}/**/*.rb ext/**/*.c> is used.

A base set of options can be specified by adding a B<.yardopts>
file to your base path containing all extra options separated
by whitespace.


=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 General Options

=over

=item B<-b>, B<--db> I<FILE>

Use a specified .yardoc db to load from or save to (defaults to .yardoc)

=item B<-->[B<no->]B<single-db>

Whether code objects should be stored to single database file (advanced)

=item B<-n>, B<--no-output>

Only generate .yardoc database, no documentation.

=item B<-c>, B<--use-cache> [I<FILE>]

Use the cached .yardoc db to generate documentation (defaults to no cache)

=item B<--no-cache>

Clear .yardoc db before parsing source.

=item B<-->[B<no->]B<yardopts> [I<FILE>]

If arguments should be read from FILE (defaults to yes, FILE defaults to .yardopts)

=item B<-->[B<no->]B<document>

If arguments should be read from .document file (defaults to yes)

=item B<--no-save>

Do not save the parsed data to the yardoc db

=item B<--exclude> I<REGEXP>

Ignores a file if it matches path match (regexp)

=back


=head2 Output options

=over

=item B<--one-file>

Generates output as a single file

=item B<--list>

List objects to standard out (implies B<-n>)

=item B<--no-public>

Don't show public methods. (default shows public)

=item B<--protected>

Show protected methods. (default hides protected)

=item B<--private>

Show private methods. (default hides private)

=item B<--no-private>

Hide objects with @private tag

=item B<--[no-]api API>

Generates documentation for a given API (objects which define the correct @api tag).
If B<--no-api> is given, displays objects with no @api tag.

=item B<--embed-mixins>

Embeds mixin methods into class documentation

=item B<--embed-mixin [MODULE]>

Embeds mixin methods from a particular module into class documentation

=item B<--no-highlight>

Don't highlight code blocks in output.

=item B<--default-return TYPE>

Shown if method has no return type.  (defaults to 'Object')

=item B<--hide-void-return>

Hides return types specified as 'void'.  (default is shown)

=item B<--query QUERY>

Only show objects that match a specific query

=item B<--title TITLE>

Add a specific title to HTML documents

=item B<-r>, B<--readme>, B<--main> I<FILE>

The readme file used as the title page of documentation.

=item B<--files> I<FILE1>,I<FILE2>,...

Any extra comma separated static files to be included (eg. FAQ)

=item B<--asset> I<FROM>[:I<TO>]

A file or directory to copy over to output directory after generating

=item B<-o>, B<--output-dir> I<PATH>

The output directory. (defaults to ./doc)

=item B<-m>, B<--markup> B<MARKUP>

Markup style used in documentation, like textile, markdown or rdoc (defaults to rdoc).

=item B<-M> I<MARKUP_PROVIDER>

Overrides the library used to process markup

=item B<--markup-provider>

formatting (specify the gem name)

=item B<--charset> I<ENC>

Character set to use when parsing files (default is system locale)

=item B<-t>, B<--template> I<TEMPLATE>

The template to use. (defaults to "default")

=item B<-p>, B<--template-path> I<PATH>

The template path to look for templates in.  (used with -t).

=item B<-f>, B<--format> I<FORMAT>

The output format for the template (defaults to html).

=item B<--no-stats>

Don't print statistics

=item B<--locale> I<LOCALE>

The locale for generated documentation (defaults to en).

=item B<--po-dir> I<DIR>

The directory that has .po files (defaults to #{YARD::Registry.po_dir}).

=back

=head2 Tag options:

(I<TAG>:I<TITLE> looks like: 'B<overload>:B<Overloaded Method>')

=over

=item B<--tag> I<TAG>:I<TITLE>

Registers a new free-form metadata @tag

=item B<--type-tag> I<TAG>:I<TITLE>

Tag with an optional types field

=item B<--type-name-tag> I<TAG>:I<TITLE>

Tag with optional types and a name field

=item B<--name-tag> I<TAG>:I<TITLE>

Tag with a name field

=item B<--title-tag> I<TAG>:I<TITLE>

Tag with first line as title field

=item B<--hide-tag> I<TAG>

Hides a previously defined tag from templates

=item B<--transitive-tag> I<TAG>

Marks a tag as transitive

=item B<--non-transitive-tag> I<TAG>

Marks a tag as not transitive

=back

=head2 Other options:

=over

=item B<-e>, B<--load> I<FILE>

A Ruby script to load before running command.

=item B<--plugin> I<PLUGIN>

Load a YARD plugin (gem with `yard-' prefix)

=item B<--legacy>

Use old style Ruby parser and handlers. Always on in 1.8.x.

=item B<--safe>

Enable safe mode for this instance

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Show no warnings.

=item B<--verbose>

Show more information.

=item B<--debug>

Show debugging information.

=item B<--backtrace>

Show stack traces

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Show version.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show this help.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

B<yardoc> B<-o> C<documentation/> - C<FAQ> C<LICENSE>

The above example outputs documentation for files in
C<lib/**/*.rb> to C<documentation/> including the extra files
C<FAQ> and C<LICENSE>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<yard>(1).

=head1 AUTHORS

B<yard> has been developed by Loren Segal <lsegal@soen.ca>.

This manual page has been written for the Debian Project by Cédric Boutillier (but
may used by others).
