=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

yri - documentation tool in console for Ruby 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

B<yri> [I<options>] I<Path_to_object>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<yard>(1) is an extensible documentation generation tool for the Ruby programming
language. It enables the user to generate consistent, usable documentation that
can be exported to a number of formats very easily, and also supports extending
for custom Ruby constructs such as custom class level definitions.

B<yri>(1), synonym for B<yard> B<ri> gives the possibility to read the
documentation for Ruby programs inside a console, pretty much like B<ri>(1).

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 General Options:

=over

=item B<-b>, B<--db> I<FILE>

Use a specified .yardoc db to search in

=item B<-T>, B<--no-pager>

No pager

=item B<-p>, B<--pager> I<PAGER>

Use I<PAGER> as a pager

=back

=head2 Other options:

=over

=item B<-e>, B<--load> I<FILE>

A Ruby script to load before running command.

=item B<--plugin> I<PLUGIN>

Load a YARD plugin (gem with `yard-' prefix)

=item B<--legacy>

Use old style Ruby parser and handlers. Always on in 1.8.x.

=item B<--safe>

Enable safe mode for this instance

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Show no warnings.

=item B<--verbose>

Show more information.

=item B<--debug>

Show debugging information.

=item B<--backtrace>

Show stack traces

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Show version.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show a help message, similar to this page.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

B<yri> I<String#gsub>


=head1 SEE ALSO

B<yard>(1).

=head1 AUTHORS

B<yard> has been developed by Loren Segal <lsegal@soen.ca>.

This manual page has been written for the Debian Project by Cédric Boutillier (but
may used by others).
